---
id: 73
title: Visitors
date: 2004-12-31T21:23:36+00:00
author: Ed Gibbs
layout: post
guid: http://edgibbs.com/2004/01/31/visitors/
permalink: /2004/12/31/visitors/
categories:
  - cancer
---
Joe and Tom and Scum visited today. It&#8217;s nice to see family and friends. We had a good time and played our way through a game of Munchkin which Tom eventually won. For some reason Tom also had an itching for Jack in the Box (as I call it Jack in the Crack) which they got lost finding for lunch. And they like good uncles they brought presents for their nieces Molly and Kassie. 

I&#8217;m feeling really good. About the only pain I experience anymore is when the nurses doing my port cleans pull a little to hard on the lines. And the whole port comes out in the next week or two probably. Tomorrow my Mom comes in for the grandma swap off. They&#8217;ve been great throughout the ordeal.

Looking back on the year its been a lot different then expected. I found pretty much my ideal job at EDFUND managing software developers for a non-profit company, Molly showed up a little early as a bundle of joy, and all the Gibbs brothers got together for Joe and Ghen&#8217;s wedding. Then of course the cancer relapse, RICE cycles, and the stem cell transplant. I realize I spent 29 days in the hospital, almost an entire month in the last 3 months. I&#8217;m very, very glad to have survived everything intact and be happily back in remission. Cancer though is a bitch. As I ring in the new year I look forward to a lot of things.

  * Finishing the stem cell transplant and going back to work
  * Micki finishing the BAR
  * Molly&#8217;s first birthday
  * A trip to the redwoods in March/April
  * A Gibbsmen trip.
  * A new niece or nephew to be a fun uncle too
  * My birthday Jan 31
  * GT winning the Final Four (well I can hope)
  * Many more exciting adventures